chore: transform "social consensus rules" page to "rules of the competition page" (#148)
cowprotocol/docs: docs/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/competition_rules.md

---
id: competition-rules
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Solver competition rules

> All solvers participating in the solver competition must abide by certain rules. In this section, we outline all these rules, which are naturally split into three classes: (1) the ones enforced explicitly by the smart contract, (2) the ones enforced by the offchain protocol infrastructure, and (3) the so-called social consensus rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All solvers participating in the solver competition must abide by certain rules. In this section, we outline all these rules, which are naturally split into three classes:

1. Those enforced explicitly by the [smart contract](#smart-contract)
2. Those enforced by the [off-chain protocol](#off-chain-protocol) infrastructure
3. So-called social consensus rules enforced by [governance](#governance)
```

> ## 1. Rules enforced by the smart contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Smart contract
```

- Limit price constraint: this rule enforces that an order cannot be executed if its limit price is violated.

> ## 2. Rules enforced by the offchain protocol infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Off-chain protocol
```

- A solution is valid only if it contains at least one user order.

- Every solution is associated with a score, and the solutions are ranked in decreasing order of their scores. The solver whose solution has the highest positive score is declared the winner of the batch auction, and gets the right to execute its solution onchain. The solver that provided the winning solution is then rewarded according to the rules specified in [CIP-20](https://snapshot.org/#/cow.eth/proposal/0x2d3f9bd1ea72dca84b03e97dda3efc1f4a42a772c54bd2037e8b62e7d09a491f).

- Internalization of interactions: a solver is allowed to "internalize" publicly available AMM interactions whose buy token (i.e., the token that the AMM buys) is classified as a "safe" token by the protocol. Concretely, if there is enough balance of the sell token of such an interaction in the settlement contract, then a solver can signal an internalization of such an interaction, which effectively means that the protocol is willing to market make with the same rate specified in this interaction. 

> - Slippage accounting: With the exception of fees paid by users and internalized interactions (both will be clarified shortly), any token imbalance within the settlement contract that is the result of a settlement is accounted for under the term "slippage accounting", and is fully owned by the corresponding solver, as specified in [CIP-17](https://snapshot.org/#/cow.eth/proposal/0xf9c98a2710dc72c906bbeab9b8fe169c1ed2e9af6a67776cc29b8b4eb44d0fb2); for more information on slippage accounting, see the [relevant](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/slippage) section.

Author: @mfw78 Quick clarification: is this the right way to link to another part of the documentation?

`/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/slippage`

Reviewer 2: The part in parentheses is not needed anymore, right?
```suggestion
- Slippage accounting: With the exception of fees paid by users and internalized interactions, any token imbalance within the settlement contract that is the result of a settlement is accounted for under the term "slippage accounting", and is fully owned by the corresponding solver, as specified in [CIP-17](https://snapshot.org/#/cow.eth/proposal/0xf9c98a2710dc72c906bbeab9b8fe169c1ed2e9af6a67776cc29b8b4eb44d0fb2); for more information on slippage accounting, see the [relevant](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/slippage) section.
```

Reviewer: > @mfw78 Quick clarification: is this the right way to link to another part of the documentation?
> 
> `/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/slippage`

This is exactly how you do it! :+1:

> - Slippage accounting: With the exception of fees paid by users and internalized interactions (both will be clarified shortly), any token imbalance within the settlement contract that is the result of a settlement is accounted for under the term "slippage accounting", and is fully owned by the corresponding solver, as specified in [CIP-17](https://snapshot.org/#/cow.eth/proposal/0xf9c98a2710dc72c906bbeab9b8fe169c1ed2e9af6a67776cc29b8b4eb44d0fb2); for more information on slippage accounting, see the [relevant](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/slippage) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Slippage accounting](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/slippage): With the exception of fees paid by users and internalized interactions (both will be clarified shortly), any token imbalance within the settlement contract that is the result of a settlement is accounted for under the term "slippage accounting", and is fully owned by the corresponding solver, as specified in [CIP-17](https://snapshot.org/#/cow.eth/proposal/0xf9c98a2710dc72c906bbeab9b8fe169c1ed2e9af6a67776cc29b8b4eb44d0fb2).
```

Author: Applied this as well (needed to do it manually due to the various changes that I committed before doing this)

> ## 3. Social consensus rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Governance
```

This one is a potentially a little contentious, and have no strong opinions on this, in that it just seemed to have "fit" better with the headings.

---
id: competition-rules
sidebar_position: 2
---

> # Rules of the solver competition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Solver competition rules
```

Minor suggestion on a shorter title (will be used in navbar)

All solvers participating in the solver competition must abide by certain rules. In this section, we outline all these rules, which are naturally split into three classes: (1) the ones enforced explicitly by the smart contract, (2) the ones enforced by the offchain protocol infrastructure, and (3) the so-called social consensus rules.

## Rules enforced by the smart contract

- Limit price constraint: this rule enforces that an order cannot be executed if its limit price is violated.

## Rules enforced by the offchain protocol infrastructure

- Uniform clearing prices (UCP): this rule is an integral component of the protocol, and specifies that there is one clearing price per token per batch.

- A solution is valid only if it contains at least one user order.

> - Every solution is associated with a score, and the solutions are ranked in decreasing order of their scores. The empty solution with the zero score is always considered as a candidate solution. The solver whose solution has the highest (positive) score is declared the winner of the batch auction, and gets the right to execute its solution onchain. The solver that provided the winning solution is then rewarded according to the rules specified in [CIP-20](https://snapshot.org/#/cow.eth/proposal/0x2d3f9bd1ea72dca84b03e97dda3efc1f4a42a772c54bd2037e8b62e7d09a491f).

Reviewer 2: The sentence on the empty solution always confuses me a bit. Is this understandable for people not intimately familiar with the mechanism? @mfw78 
Dropping the sentence as well as the parentheses around "positive" would be clearer to me.

Author: Yes, agreed. I pushed a change that implements your suggestion.

- With the exception of fees paid by users and internalized interactions (both will be clarified shortly), any token imbalance within the settlement contract that is the result of a settlement is accounted for under the term "slippage accounting", and is fully owned by the corresponding solver, as specified in [CIP-17](https://snapshot.org/#/cow.eth/proposal/0xf9c98a2710dc72c906bbeab9b8fe169c1ed2e9af6a67776cc29b8b4eb44d0fb2). The only two types of imbalances that are not accounted for are:

  1. gas fees, paid by user orders, that are always collected in the sell token of the order, and

>   2. internalized interactions; these are publicly available AMM interactions whose buy token (i.e., the token that the AMM buys) is classified as a "safe" token by the protocol. In such a case, if there is enough balance of the sell token of such an interaction in the settlement contract, then a solver can signal an internalization of such an interaction, which effectively means that the protocol is willing to market make with the same rate specified in this interaction. 

Reviewer 2: I would suggest to either just link to the slippage section of the docs if this is meant as clarification on our slippage accounting; or formulate it more as a rule for internalizations.

Reviewer: Just kindly wondering if this has been addressed and we can merge this PR?

Author: Thanks for the reminder! This is still pending. Will try to take care of it today so that we can merge it the latest tomorrow.

Author: @fhenneke Could you have another look? I did some minor changes here.

---
id: competition-rules
sidebar_position: 2
---

> # The current rules of the solver competition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Rules of the solver competition
```

All solvers participating in the solver competition must abide by certain rules. In this section, we outline all these rules, which are naturally split into two classes: (1) the ones enforced explicitly by the smart contract and the offchain protocol infrastructure, and (2) the so-called social consensus rules.

> ## Rules enforced by the smart contract and/or the autopilot

Reviewer: I'd likely suggest breaking this down more atomically such that it was:

1. Smart contract
2. Protocol
3. Social consensus (which still seems like it fits under the Protocol bracket, as this is enforced by the autopilot, or is there a distinction here?)

Author: Yeah good point, will do that.

Social consensus are not actually enforced anywhere. The way they are used is the following: "you should follow these rules although they are not really hard rules and are not enforced on a per auction basis. However we monitor settlements and if we catch you, you will be in trouble and might get slashed...."
